# Event Handling

## Working with events: `developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/API/Document_Object_Model/Events`

### DOM events
*Events* are fired to notify code of "interesting changes" that may effect its execution. These can result from: user interactions (mouse, resizing a window), or changes in state of the underlying environment (low battery, media events from  the OS), and other causes.

Each Event is represented by an object that is based on the *Event Interface*.

> #### Event | EventTarget  
> The *Event Interface* represents an event which takes place on an *EventTarget* Events can be triggered by user action (mouse, keyboard), or generated by APIs to represent progress of an asyncrhonous task.
> 
> An event can also be triggered by calling the HTMLElement.click() method, or by defining the event and sending it to a specified target using EventTarget.dispatchEvent().
> 
> There are many types of events, and some use other interfaces *based* on the main Event Interface. 
> 
> - Event itself contains prperties and methods which are common to all events.
> 
> ##### Event Listeners/Handlers
> - Many DOM elements can be set up to accept ("listen" for) these events, and execute code in response to process ("handle) them. 
> - Event handlers are usually connected ("attached") to various HTML elements: button, div, span, etc. using EventTarget.addEventListener(). 
>     - This generally replaces using the old HTML *event handler attributes*.
> - When properly added, handlers can be disconnected using removeEventListener().

#### Event Index
    - Animation
    - Asynchronous data fetching
    - Clipboard
    - Composition
    - CSS Transition
    - Database
    - DOM mutation
    - Drag'n'drop, Wheel
    - Focus
    - Form
    - Fullscreen
    - Gamepad
    - Gestures
    - History
    - HTML element content display management
    - Inputs
    - Keyboard
    - Loading/unloading documents
    - manifests
    - Media
    - Messaging
    - Mouse
    - Network/Connection
    - Payments
    - Performance
    - Pointer
    - Print
    - Promise Rejection
    - Sockets
    - SVG
    - Text selection
    - Touch
    - RTC (real time communication)
    - Server-sent evnts
    - Speech
    - Workers

### Creating and dispatching events

In addition to events fired by built-in interfaces, you can create and dispatch DOM events yourself. Such events are commonly called *synthetic events*, as opposed to the events fired by the browser.

#### Creating custom events
Events can be created with the Event constructor:

js
```
const event = new Event("build");

// Listen for the event.
elem.addEventListener(
    "build",
    (e) => {
        /* ... */
    },
    false,
);

// Dispatch the event.
elem.dispatchEvent(event);
```






